.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Curtis Gedak.
.\" This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
.\" the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.\" There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii gparted.8
.\"
.TH GPARTED 8 "APRIL 14th, 2008" gparted "GParted Manual"
.SH NAME
gparted \- Front-end to parted for manipulating disk partitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gparted [device]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gparted
is the Gnome Partition Editor
for creating, reorganizing, and deleting disk partitions. 

A hard disk is usually subdivided into one or more partitions.
These partitions are normally not re-sizable
(making one smaller and the adjacent one larger.)
.B gparted
makes it possible for you to take a hard disk
and change the partition organization,
while preserving the partition contents.

More specifically,
.B gparted
enables you to create, destroy, resize, move,
check, label, and copy partitions, and the file systems contained within.
This is useful for
creating space for new operating systems,
reorganizing disk usage, 
and mirroring one partition with another (disk imaging).

.B gparted
uses GNU libparted to detect and manipulate devices and partition tables.
Several optional packages provide additional file system support.
Optional packages include:
.br
e2fsprogs, dosfstools, mtools, hfsutils, jfsutils,
.br
ntfsprogs, reiser4progs, reiserfsprogs, and xfsprogs.

.B gparted
can also be used with storage devices other than hard disks, such as
USB flash drives, and memory cards.

More documentation and links to the support forum and bug reports can be found at:
.br
http://gparted.sourceforge.net

.SH EXAMPLES
For a hard drive attached as /dev/sda,
.B gparted
can be instructed to limit operations to this drive only with the
following:

.B gparted
/dev/sda

This can save time with subsequent device refreshes, such as after
operations are applied.
.SH NOTES
When resizing a logical partition within an extended partition,
remember that each portion is resized independently.
Hence shrinking the left-most logical partition
by moving the left edge to the right will shrink only the logical
partition.  If you desire to free the space for an adjacent primary
partition, then you must also shrink the extended partition.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at:
.br
http://gparted.sourceforge.net/bugs.php

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Curtis Gedak <gedakc@users.sf.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR parted (8),
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR ntfsprogs (8)